---
layout: post
title: UIKonf 2018 Review
tags:
- apple
- berlin
- community
- conferences
- germany
- iphone
- ios
- mobile
- people
- travel
- uikonf
---

_tl;dr: UIKonf is an independent technical and community confernence for iOS developers._

<!--excerpt.start-->
I had the great pleasure to attend [UIKonf](http://www.uikonf.com) in Berlin, Germany last week.  It was a single track conference that was well balanced between technical, business, and socially positive presentations.  I really enjoyed getting to meet and learn from some incredible people from around the world.  Here are some of my favorite presentations:
<!--excerpt.end-->


#### Kamilah Taylor - Tired of the state of online conversations? 🙈🙉🙊 Let’s do something about it 💪

This talk dives into the history of online communities and conversations. It will go through their technological advances and their both positive and negative social impact. It ends with some recent work in this area and what we can all do to make things better.

#### John Sundell - The Magic of UI Testing

In this talk, John will show how UI testing can not only be a powerful tool in order to automate parts of your QA process - but how it can also be a somewhat “magical” tool when it comes to working on your app as well. The talk will include pros & cons of UI testing, how to make tests run faster & more stable, and how UI tests can be used during the development process.

#### Carola Nitz - Advanced Debugging Techniques

#### Dave DeLong - The Laws of Magic

#### Janina Kutyn - Improving Scrolling Performance through GPU Optimisation

Beautiful smooth scrolling is key to building polished apps that delight users. While the newest devices are forgiving of unoptimised code, older devices bring performance issues to light, especially in apps that display many content-rich cells. In this talk I will discuss advanced techniques for improving scrolling performance in table/collection views, specifically by optimising the code for the GPU.

#### Vincent Garrigues - Scaling iOS, a story of technical debt, and how to get through it

You almost only hear about success stories at conferences, and I wanted to share something a little different. In 2014 we shipped a completely rewritten SoundCloud app. We made a few choices back then that had unexpected side effects later on. These mistakes affected the team, but we learned from them and designed a strategy to deal with them. Today, the SoundCloud iOS app is in the top 20 most downloaded apps in the App Store. What I would like the audience to take away from this talk is that mistakes can and will happen; what matters most is how you deal with them once you’ve realized things went wrong.


The entire set of conference presentations are [also available on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nx0cKEQcbz4&list=PLdr22uU_wISohI7PIhzq0gotGfKZl1lGo).

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nx0cKEQcbz4&list=PLdr22uU_wISohI7PIhzq0gotGfKZl1lGo -->
